for now uh want to bring in now Maran
Bashar Al jaz's senior political analyst
he comes to us via Skype uh from Paris
is this a sign that the mediator's um
patience is running thin and that there
might be a willingness now to apply
pressure to the parties to sign this
ceasefire implement this ceasefire
that's on the table right
now well it's certainly a good way to
put it that uh their patience is running
out uh it's certainly the case for the
mediators uh uh Egypt and Qatar uh in as
far as the United States concerned I
think there are two goals here uh for
speeding up the
process um we've heard only a few days
ago that President Biden was on the
phone with the Amir of Qatar and the
Egyptian president in order to put more
pressure uh to conclude uh some form of
a draft for Israel and Hamas to look at
and and agree to the
details but I think there are two major
factors here one is um the possible
escalation towards war with Hezbollah
and Iran threatening that they will be
responding to Israel and uh it seemed
like the Iranians sort of leaked that
only a ceasefire will cool these spirits
in the region and I think that was uh
echoed in Washington the other thing
that I think is a very important factor
here we haven't seen much about it in
the western press but one Israeli paper
uh quoted that uh the American president
seemed to have accepted
netanyahu's demand that Israel could
continue with the war after phase
one uh for the past 3 4 days Nan has
been demanding that this agreement by
Biden that Israel can continue with the
war after phase one be put in writing
the Biden Administration refused to do
so but they said they will give their
varable support for it and once uh the
first phase is getting implemented that
they might provide something inv writing
to the Israelis I think these are the
two main factors why we see more
momentum uh towards
right and marn I just wanted to see you
know what your view is on the following
uh could we uh uh see potentially them
Implement a a ceasefire without the kind
of negotiated agreement that everybody
is is trying to get and is so difficult
to hammer out apparently but just a
ceasefire um would that open the pathway
with with this statement that's just
been
released no I think the idea here is
that uh the going to go back to the
table come August
15 uh and both Hamas and Israel would be
looking at hammering the details and
apparently there's a lot of details that
still remaining include which prisoners
which hostages how many hostages in the
first phase uh how many Palestinian
prisoners will be released in return and
where would the Israelis be uh deployed
uh whether they would withdraw from the
much of the Gaza in the first phase and
eventually leave the southern part of
Gaza on the borders with Egypt so
there's all sorts of details that would
still need to be hammered next week I
think what what we've heard now is
basically the three parties the United
States along with Egypt and qar saying
that we have a good framework agreement
now for the three stage ceas fire
agreement and that uh there are still
remaining details that the parties need
to look at I think this is more or less
a called for Action uh and certain uh
call for urgency to act quicker than
before and as I said the two main
reasons is One removing the obstacle
that nany has always insisted on that
Israel can go back to war after phase
one and two that there is an urgency of
an escalation now with hisbah Iran
threatening and hence the United States
would like to see that uh undermined by
reaching some kind of a deal and Marwan
you know what type of you know success
could we see you know this round August
15 these talks have you know when when
you consider that the two you know main
decision makers um are Netanyahu and
sinir I mean will they see eye to eye on
this well it depends on uh what is being
proposed um but I I see your point that
the gap between them is way too huge and
certainly the uh the situation has
inflamed as such the past 10 months with
Netanyahu uh you know pushing uh red
line after Red Line throughout and his
government continued to speak of um you
know ethnic cleansing
torture uh tormenting the Palestinians
starving them and so on so forth
but eventually as the Americans have
been saying the past few
weeks that uh the war must come to an
end that it needs to wind down at least
and that the three-stage proposal just
to remind our viewers around the world
it was an Israeli proposal for God's
sake it wasn't an American or or an Arab
POS proposal it was an Israeli proposal
it was the Israelis who've been trying
to walk back that proposal for the past
uh 3 months ever since the United
Nations security Council has embraced it
under American pressure so all the
reasons for a deal has they really been
there for the past three months and it's
the Israelis that have put one obstacle
after another I think the main obstacle
has been removed with this apparent
secret agreement between the Biden
Administration and the N government over
the capacity of Israel to resume the war
after phase one if it wants to and the
threat of War by Hezbollah and and and
Iran which I think the United n the
United States certainly the bid
Administration Kamala Harris and so on
so forth don't want to see a wider war
in the in the few remaining weeks to the
elections of November
7th Maran Bashar Al jazer is a senior
political analyst thank you
Maran make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer out